Overview of a nice, upscale neighborhood. Cars are driving by, people are taking walks and pushing baby carriages while saying hello to each other.

Focus on house where a woman steps outside, carrying a basket of flowers. Her voice is the one in the voiceover.

"My name is Mary Alice Young. When you read this morning's paper, you may come across an article about the unusual day I had last week. Normally, there is never anything newsworthy about my life. But that all changed last Thursday." As she talks, we see snippets of what she's describing.

"Of course, everything seemed quite normal at first. I made breakfast for my family. I performed my chores. I completed my projects. I ran my errands. In truth, I spent the day as I spent every other day, quietly polishing the routine of my life. Until it gleamed with perfection. That's why it was so astonishing when I decided to go to my hallway closet and retrieve a revolver that had never been used." Mary Alice holds the gun to her head and pulls the trigger. The gun goes off and in the reflection of a mirror, Mary Alice falls to the floor.

A woman reaches down into a pile of red, blood-like liquid, dips her finger into it, and raises it to her lips to taste it, then turns to look out her window when she hears the shot. The voiceover continues.


"My body was discovered by my neighbor, Mrs. Martha Huber, who had been startled by a strange popping sound. Her curiosity aroused, Mrs. Huber tried to think of a reason for dropping in on me unannounced." Mrs. Huber goes to her hallway closet and removes a blender that has a label on it reading "Property of Mary Alice Young"

She leaves her house and hurries over next door.

"After some initial hesitation, she decided to return the blender she borrowed six months before." Mrs. Huber goes to the front door and rings the bell, waits, then rings it again. She then goes around the house and peeks through a window. Seeing the body on the floor, she screams and rushes back to her house to call 911.

"It's my neighbor. I think she's been shot. There's blood everywhere! Yes, you've got to send an ambulance. You've got to send one right now!" She hangs up.

"And for a moment, Mrs. Huber stood motionless in her kitchen, grief-stricken by this senseless tragedy. But only for a moment." Mrs. Huber turns to look at the blender with its label firmly attached.

"And if there's one thing Mrs. Huber was known for..." Mrs. Huber tears off the label on the blender.

"...it was her ability to look on the bright side." She puts the blender back in the closet.


Many people go to Mary Alice Young's house, dressed solemnly.

"I was laid to rest on Monday. After the funeral, all the residents of Wisteria Lane came to pay their respects. And as people do in these situations, they brought food. Lynette Scavo brought fried chicken." Lynette, caring a large platter of chicken, looks drawn and tired.

"Lynette had a great family recipe for fried chicken. Of course, she didn't cook much while she was climbing up the corporate ladder." Flashback to Lynette in a boardroom, giving a presentation to a group of people.

"She didn't have the time. But when her doctor announced Lynette was pregnant..." Flashback to Lynette in her doctor's office, getting the ultrasound. Lynette is grinning, obviously excited.

"...her husband, Tom, had an idea. 'Why not quit your job? Kids do better with stay at home moms. It would be so much less stressful.'" Lynette hesitantly nods her agreement at him, her smile gone.

Present time, Lynette continues walking down the sidewalk, holding the chicken platter and pushing a stroller. As she walks, her other three children, all little boys, two of whom are twins, walk in front of the stroller, the twins pushing each other as they walk.

"But this was not the case. In fact, Lynette's life had become so hectic, she was now forced to get her fried chicken from a fast food restaurant. Lynette would have appreciated the irony if she had stopped to think about it." Lynette tries to break up her children's fight as it gets more physical. She kneels down in front of them, angry.

"Listen to me. You are going to behave today. I will not going to be humiliated in front of the entire neighborhood. And, just so you know how serious I am..." (she pulls a piece of paper out of her jacket).

One of her boys asks, "What's that?"

Lynette: "Santa's cell phone number." Twin: "How'd you get that?" Lynette: "I know someone who knows someone who knows an elf. And if any of you acts up, so help me, I will call Santa and tell him you want socks for Christmas. Are you willing to risk that?" They shake their heads no.

She straights up. "All right, let's get this over with."

The camera pans to a Hispanic man in a suit, standing outside of a beautiful house. He turns to watch his gorgeous wife hurry down the steps to meet him.

"Gabrielle Solis, who lives down the block, brought a spicy paella." Flashback to Gabrielle when she was younger, walking down the runway as a fashion model.

"Since her modeling days in New York, Gabrielle had developed a taste for rich food and rich men." Flashback to a restaurant, where Gabrielle and the man are having dinner.

"Carlos, who worked in mergers and acquisitions, proposed on their third date. Gabrielle was touched when tears welled up in his eyes. But she soon discovered that this happened every time Carlos closed a big deal." Present time, where Gabrielle joins Carlos as he waits for her.

"Gabrielle liked her paella piping hot. However, her relationship with her husband was considerably cooler." Carlos and Gabrielle walk down the street. Carlos tells Gabrielle that if she talks with Mason at the wake, she's to casually mention to him how much he paid for her necklace.

Gabrielle retorts "Why don't I just pin the receipt to my chest?"

Carlos explains that Mason let him know how much he had paid for his wife's convertible. He tells her to just work it into the conversation. Gabrielle says she can't just work it in.

Carlos: "Why not? At the Donahue party, everyone was talking mutual funds and you found a way to mention you slept with half of the Yankee outfielders." Gabrielle: "I'm telling you, it came up in the context of the conversation." Carlos: "Hey! People are starting to stare. Can you keep your voice down?" Gabrielle: "Absolutely. Wouldn't want people to think we're not happy."


The door to the Young's house opens to show a well-groomed woman standing outside with her husband, son, and daughter. She's holding two baskets full of baked goods.

"Bree Van De Kamp, who lives next door, brought baskets of muffins she baked from scratch. Bree was known for her cooking, and for making her own clothes, and for doing her own gardening, and for re-upholstering her own furniture. Yes, Bree's many talents were known throughout the neighborhood. And everyone on Wisteria Lane thought of Bree as the perfect wife and mother. Everyone, that is, except her own family." Bree walks in, with her husband and children following behind her.

She goes up to Paul and Zachary Young to offer her condolences. They tell her that she didn't need to go through so much trouble, and she says that it was no trouble at all.

She explains that one of the baskets is for the guests and the other is just for Paul and Zachary and those are "breakfast type things." As she talks, her family silently looks at each other. She hands Paul and Zachary the muffins and reminds them that she will need the baskets back. Behind her, her husband briefly closes his eyes.


A woman leaves her house with her teenage daughter. She's carrying a casserole dish with aluminum foil covering it. The foil comes off the dish and the woman has to grab it before it flies away.

"Susan Mayer, who lives across the street, brought macaroni and cheese. Her husband Carl, always teased her, saying it was the only thing she knew how to cook, and she rarely made it well. It was too salty the night she and Carl moved into their house. It was too watery the night she found lipstick on Carl's shirt. She burned it the night Carl told her he was leaving her for his secretary." Flashback to Carl leaving the house with suitcases as Susan and her daughter sit at the kitchen table, a macaroni and cheese dinner in front of them. Susan begins to cry. Her daughter leans over and pats her mother's arm.

In present time, Susan and her daughter leave their house and begin walking towards the Young's house.

"A year had passed since the divorce. Susan had started to think how nice it would be to have a man in her life, even one who would make fun of her cooking." As they walk, Susan's daughter asks, "Mom, why would someone kill themselves?"

Susan: "Well, sometimes people are so unhappy, they think that's the only way they can solve their problems. " Julie: "But Mrs. Young always seemed happy." Susan: "Yeah. But sometimes, people pretend to be one way on the outside, when they're totally different on the inside." Julie: "Oh, you mean like how dad's girlfriend is always smiling and says nice things, but deep down, you just know she's a bitch? " Susan: "I don't like that word, Julie. But yeah, that's a great example." They reach the house and go inside. Susan puts the macaroni and cheese on the table with the other food. She heads to the kitchen where the other three women are sitting. They say hello. Susan looks at Mary Alice's chair and then picks up the coffee to pour herself a cup.

Flashback to when all five of the women were drinking coffee together at that table when Susan's husband left her.

Mary Alice: "So what did Carl say when you confronted him?" Susan: "You'll love this. He said, it doesn't mean anything. It was just sex." The women all scoff. She continues. "And then he got this Zen look on his face and said, you know, Susan, most men live lives of quiet desperation."

Lynette: "Please tell me you punched him." Susan: "No, I said, really? And what do most women lead? Lives of noisy fulfillment?" The women offer support.

